---
layout: post
title: Monday Morning Primary Predictions: Did demographics decide the 2016 primaries?
published: False
---

[](http://www.politico.com/story/2016/05/trump-pundits-wrong-predictions-222789)

Many prognosticators got this year's primary wrong.  In the fall, experts across the political spectrum said that Trump's candidacy was doomed.  The Huffington Post put their coverage of Trump in their Entertainment section.  Bill Kristol of The Weekly Standard said he would leave the Republican party if Trump won the nomaination, but added "I don't expect it to be an issue."  The (supposedly) data-driven pundits at fivethirtyeight, claimed that Trump was not a real candidate and he would not win a single primary.

Even after Trump won a few primaries, many of these experts continued to say that Trump was on the brink of collapse and he'd never get the nomination.

Likewise, many people predicted that Hillary Clinton would sail to the nomination because she did not have a serious contender.  Martin O'Malley was not different enough from her, and Bernie Sanders stood no chance, because he was a radical socialist from Vermont, and "ordinary Americans" would not identify with him.


I built a model based on demographic information that was available in 2014.  The model also used information about the promaries, like the date they were held and how they were structured (open/closed/caucus).

I did not use any polling information.  The strength of this approach is that it beats the hell out of any professional predictions that were made during the primaries.  The biggest weakness is that it relies on the results of some primaries to make predictions for others.  As a result, I was only able to make predictions starting on Super Tuesday (date...).  This is a serious drawback but, observing the results this year, one wonders whether anyone should have made predictions before Super Tuesday.


Show plot of trump's predicted number of delegates over time

Problems

Excluded states

Alaska
Show shapefile with dissolved boundaries
Mention townships in MA, etc


Future work:
Including 
This requires downloading the relevant shapefiles from each district, and combining them into a single map.  U.S. census data is not available for townships, so I will need to download data in census tracts and then combine them to form townships.

